hello my name is rich Murphy and I'm the
manager of the platform security group
this is session 311 web enabling your
application during this session we're
going to be talking about URL access
giving an overview of the functionality
in the library discussing the api's
talking about URL access on Mac OS 10
and also talking about the nsurl api's
and cocoa web programming during this
session you're going to learn what you
can do with URL access basically how it
applies to your problems how you can
incorporate URL access into your carbon
applications the limitations of URL
access and future plans for the for the
AP is what is ural access your all
access is an API that allows you to
easily access data on the Internet by
the youth the use of URLs supports HTTP
HTTP FTP and file type URLs has
downloading and uploading capabilities
and it's a Carbon API that's available
on both Mac OS 9 and Mac OS 10 this
slide indicates how we see URL access
actually being used for the most part if
you're building a carbon application you
need to use URL access URL access is
available on both platforms and will
provide all the basic URL functionality
or URL download and upload functionality
that you need it's based on the the Mac
OS itself which provides all the
networking functionality underneath
actual socket access or file access and
that sort of thing on the cocoa cocoa
side we have the CF api's core
foundation or CF provides an additional
URL accessing type api's
and they're also based on the Mac OS 10
kernel and the networking capabilities
of that here's some standard URL access
features we have an authentication
dialog that pops up whenever you need to
actually authenticate or log in to a
remote server whether you're doing FTP
type access or whether you're going to
an authenticated HTTP or HTTPS site
there's a progress dialog built into the
the library that will come up and show
you how much time is left it includes
file decoding capability it links into
doing deeb in hexing and also working
with Apple single decoding
additionally in Mac OS 9 it currently
will expand dots it files using the
Aladdin just stuff and expand your
capabilities
it's scriptable using AppleScript has
proxy and firewall support and it also
supports the keychain for storing your
authentication information
for HTTP we have download capability we
have the capability of doing post and
put although it requires you to do a
little bit of additional work with the
api's it auto redirects and you have
full access to the server responds by
taking a look at properties it'll also
do proxy authentication for FTP URL
access will all you also provide upload
of files and directories or download of
files and directories and it gives you
the capability of getting directory
listings from the FTP server for HTTP we
also include SSL version 3.0 capability
with 128-bit encryption there are some
functional gotchas when you're using URL
access basically it doesn't bother to
parse the response of HTML this can be a
problem when you're doing redirection if
you have a file not found on the remote
side or if when you have login failures
and that sort of thing there proxy
limitations for FTP uploading when
you're trying to send a file up to an
FTP server or when you're doing FTP
directory downloading there's a couple
third-party applications that are
actually using URL access both in 9 and
10 I cab is currently using it in order
to download HTTP sites and adobe uses it
an acrobat to implement the web capture
facility there's also a fair number of
companies that are using the scripting
capabilities to help manipulate files
get them up to servers and back down
from servers as well
so the next thing we're going to do is
go over the api's there's synchronous
api's they include a system event
procedure that allows you to trap system
events and react to those there's
various flags that you can specify to
URL access which will help modify its
functionality there's properties that
can be set and that sort of thing and
interrogated in order to perform various
operations like HTTP puts and posts or
to get back information from an HTTP
server
there's the asynchronous API which
allows you to start URL access off doing
a transfer and in those cases you want
to be checking for events then there's
various states that URL access goes
through that you can interrogate to see
how it's working
first of the synchronous API is is URL
down simple download this is really the
easiest way to download a URL if you're
writing an application that basically
just needs to grab something off of a
server this is really the function to
use all you have to do is provide a
source URL a destination file spec or
handle and then flags indicating how you
want URL access to actually behave if
you're using this as an application that
needs to be interactive you need to be
able to you need to use this in a thread
because it is a synchronous API it will
block until the transfer actually occurs
here's an example of using URL simple
download notice here we've created a
little function called get URL which
takes a source URL as an argument in a
file spec in order to download the
actual file to a file on the Mac OS file
system we set some URL open flags for
passing into the actual function call
telling it to replace the exist an
existing file if it's there display the
progress as you're doing the download
and expand the file as it comes down we
call URL simple download passing in the
URL passing in the destination file spec
passing a nil to the memory argument
because we're not going to download it
to memory passing in the fought the
flags and in this particular case we
aren't providing an event proc and so
therefore we also don't need to provide
a context it makes the call and then it
simply returns along with its status it
will have downloaded all the data into
the file and that sort of thing or
return the near status
system event procedure can be used as a
parameter to the synchronous calls this
will allow any of the dialogues that are
displayed to become moveable modal any
update events will be pass through to
the the procedure that you passed in if
you don't have one of these the
dialogues will become non moveable modal
the flags for aural access control
optional aspects of the transfer as we
saw a little bit earlier it had the
replace existing flag or the display
progress flag and that sort of thing
these flags can be used in both the
synchronous and the asynchronous calls
and various calls will accept different
Flags check the documentation online for
that here are some sample Flags that we
have the replace existing flag as I said
earlier will replace a file on the
download or the upload if it if it's
already there displaying progress will
happen if you pass in the que URL
display progress flag that'll put up a
little dialog display off will actually
invoke the URL access authentication
window to get your login and password
expand file will invoke Aladdin expander
stuff expander bin hex on the way up
will actually bin hex the file and then
there's the no auto redirect flag in
other words come back with an error if
you if you're being told to redirect
there's also on the synchronous side
there's a little bit more complex call
if you want to called URL download if
you call URL access through you or I'll
download it takes a few more steps in
order to actually invoke the call but it
allows you a lot more creativity or a
lot more flexibility in what you can
actually get out of the calls you have
to create a URL reference using URL new
reference and URL dispose reference and
once again this should be used in the
threads and since the synchronous call
but once you have that reference you can
set various properties and do additional
manipulation of how URL access will
actually be used so as I said before if
you use URL download you can get in set
properties before and after the download
you can set things like the user
password if you want to or things like
that and you can also after the call is
made interrogate the URL reference in
order to find out what the status was
coming back from the server a little bit
better or in a little bit more detail if
you've actually threaded it you can
monitor the state of the download or you
can't abort the download as it as it's
progressing if it's taking too long
here's an example of using URL download
in this particular case we've made
another function get URL same as before
taking a URL and passing in the file
spec destination you'll notice the call
to URL new reference which actually
allocates a URL ref which can later then
be used in URL download you notice the
call structure doesn't take a URL as the
first thing it takes a URL ref in has
the arguments shown here after the call
to URL download we do a URL dispose
reference
on the synchronous upload side we have
URL simple upload and then also URL
upload and they they pair up the same
way the URL download calls pair up URL
simple upload is easy to use URL up URL
simple upload is very easy to use URL
upload is a little bit more difficult it
gives you a little bit more flexibility
in this particular case you give the
destination URL where you want to go and
a source file spec is provided one of
the limitations of this is you can't
upload from memory different Flags apply
to the upload side and right now it's
FTP only
for properties you can get the URL host
or the URL actually passed in or you can
get the resources it points to meaning
on the way back you can check to see
what the size was of the resource that
was downloaded or the resource name on
the way down which might have been
specified by use of the URL itself or
you could have specified it through the
file spec also the mind mime type that
had ended up mapping to on the download
you can get the status string check and
you see how things went or you can get
the total number of items for instance
if you've downloaded your directory this
would tell you how many files actually
got brought down in in the download for
HTTP specific properties you can get the
request method the response header body
or a redirected URL
properties are received using URL get
property if you specify the property
that you're asking for and give it a
variable that you expect to have it come
back in in order to set properties you
call URL set property any of these
properties may set as may change as a
result of the transfer itself it may be
that the username and password might
change as a result of actually redoing
the authentication from the dialog
coming up that sort of thing or it may
be that other properties are set as a
result of the transfer from the HTTP
server returning certain information
these are all the properties that are
that you can set when before making the
call once you have the URL reference you
can set any one of these properties in
the URL ref here's an example of using
the properties in order to do an HTTP
POST operation notice before we said
that you could do a put or a post but it
requires a little bit more work in this
particular case we're going to end up
doing a URL download in order to
actually post data up to the server we
make the new reference we fill out the
request method property with a post
request we also set the property of the
HTTP request body with the actual data
we want to send up to the server then we
just call URL download which should have
the full complement of arguments sorry
about that
after the call we dispose the reference
the asynchronous API is need a URL
reference in order to do an asynchronous
call you need to create a URL reference
the one call that you can make for this
is URL open URL open will either do an
upload or a download depending on what
you've requested you retrieve the data
with URL but get buffer in URL release
buffer you monitor the state of the
transaction using URL get current state
various reasons why you might want to
use the asynchronous api's if you're
basically just filtering something you
want to send it on through it's a good
reason if you wanted to display your own
progress rather than having URL access
provide the progress or if you don't
want to include multiple threads in your
application here's an example of an
asynchronous download using URL open so
in this particular case we created a URL
reference we also set up a notify proc
with the notify upp equals new URL
notify upp with the function my notifier
which we'll just show you in the next
slide the URL open call includes the URL
ref the flags the notify proc pointer
and then the events mask that we want to
take a look at and also a pointer to the
user context in this particular case
we're just setting up a little done flag
we have all of that in a do-while loop
here and checking to see if we're done
or not and in order to give you oral
access a little bit of time to work it
calls URL idle here's the notification
routine that we'd actually registered my
notifier you notice that it's switching
based on the events coming in for a
database available event which case we
just process the data or in the
particular cases of a completed event or
an error occurred event we simply set
done to true and we break out of the
routine
here's the process data call that we
gets called from the notify proc gets
the current state gets the current
buffer does something with the buffer
and then releases it events are always
reported to the notification routine you
can register for a subset or you can
actually handle all events coming in if
you need all the events use que URL all
buffer events mask otherwise you
actually or to gather the appropriate
flags that you want to look at in this
particular case the completed event mask
in the URL error occurred event mask
here's a sample of all the events that
you can possibly be waiting for resource
found property changed and so on
here's the case of an asynchronous
download where we're actually going to
pull so we set up to do the download
call URL open URL open and then we go
into a do-while loop basically what we
do is we just check the state by calling
your I'll get current state saving that
into current state and then check it
against the various states that would be
completed the URL completed state and
the error occurred event
the URL get current state function
itself reports the state of the transfer
most states have some sort of an event
counterpart you can't find out about
property change events by using States
so you can't tell about for instance the
HTTP properties changing or something
like that there is no way to actually
signify that in the state
checking States is useful in both the
asynchronous in the synchronous API so
that if you've used one of the
synchronous calls and gone off into
another thread you can get the current
state of a transfer here's some sample
states that are available the DAO
connecting state download state data
available state error occurred and
completed state so in review there is a
synchronous API using URL simple
download URL download URL simple upload
and URL upload and then the asynchronous
API where you'd use URL open various
flags and properties and events as we've
seen help you manipulate how the
transfer actually works some more
programming gotchas URL access currently
is highly threaded you have to call URL
idle in order to give URL access a
chance to work the set property function
sometimes expects C strings and
sometimes Pascal strings one of the
things we're working on in URL access is
updating some of the documentation as
we've started to use it we've had a
transition period over the last couple
of months we have some new people
working on it we're finding that we need
to actually get a little bit more
documentation so expect that to be
updated really soon I hope as far as
what's what properties are expected as C
or Pascal strings you also cannot can't
call URL dispose reference from a
notification routine
if you're using Mac OS less than 9.0 for
the request body Kanak can't contain
null bytes the URL reference itself
isn't reusable and if you're using URL
open the authentication dialog isn't
currently supported for Mac OS 9 vs Mac
OS 10 there was some capability of
having plug-ins for URL access in Mac OS
9 we no longer support that for Makka oo
s 10 we've fixed some of the ways some
of the properties work in Mac OS 10 so
they work a little bit more correctly
and currently the file protocol is not
available on Mac OS 10 if you want to
develop applications on Mac OS 9 here's
the URLs if you want to work with Carbon
Lib 1.0 2 or later there's a URL for
that I think these are all available at
the end on one master URL at the very
end so you'll be able to get all those
if you want to develop on Mac OS 10 you
install Mac OS 10 and currently link it
with the system library frameworks
Carbon framework that's we're all part
of carbon and the latest documentation
is that the URL provided here for future
plans for Mac OS 10 we're working
currently on a new URL access that will
be a little bit more targeted directly
towards Mac OS 10 we've had some
problems where some things aren't
working quite properly using some of the
old ways of working with 9 and this is
giving us some performance problems and
some stability problems so that's really
give in kind of an area focus over the
last month or 2 months actually there
will be a lot less threads in the
library it'll hopefully be a lot more
stable it appears to be so far and it'll
include streaming upload and download
capability
will actually be supporting connection
reuse intend so that if you have
multiple instances of going to an HTTP
server they'll actually be able to
pickup the same connection and secure
transport will start to use the security
framework root certificates this has
been a problem for people with their own
self-signed cert sand that sort of stuff
trying to access secure servers we've
had problems where people need to update
for new new root certs that are out in
the environment
so in summary URL access allows you to
access Internet data by URLs it is a
carbon API has fairly easy to use
synchronous Abe API is in pretty
flexible asynchronous api's so now next
in order to talk about web access from
Cocoa Becky we'll rich will be out here
to talk about the core frameworks thank
you
thanks very much Richard so I'm going to
talk a little bit about how you can do
the same kinds of things as URL access
provides two-carbon from the cocoa world
and I'm gonna start by talking about CF
URL CF URL is just a simple CF type from
core foundation that's used to represent
URLs I need to correct one thing that
Richard said core foundation is not part
of the cocoa API so it's part of the
Carbon api's and it's at a low level in
the system where it can be leveraged
from both so CF URL is not a cocoa
specific type now for those of you that
are working in cocoa you'll find that CF
URL is bridge to nsurl so a CF URL is an
NS us URL and an nsurl is a CF URL
what's the F URL does for you is it
parses the URL string and gives you
access to all the different component
pieces it also handles your
internationalization issues things like
the percent-encoding x' right things
like the % encoding the encoding is in
particular and when you're working with
the CF URL API is you should be aware
that it unless the encoding is
explicitly specified in an argument
we're assuming utf-8
however CF URL is a pure data class in
other words it does nothing but
represent the string there's no support
in there for doing the actual network
i/o necessary to get the data so just
one more note on using CF URL you'll
find that a lot of the core foundation
AP is and increasingly the Carbon API is
as well are taking CF URLs to represent
files this is trickier than it sounds
because in part of the encoding issues
involved with high bit characters so
whenever you create a file URL we
recommend that you use the functions
that are named with the word file and
I've given some of those up there and
then for further compatibility with the
Carbon world there are conversion
routines which will take a CF URL and
convert it to the matching FS ref one
catch there of course a CF URL can
represent files that don't exist
FS refs can't so in that case the
conversion will fail and will return an
error
okay so from that I'm going to go on to
talk about cocoa these are the topics
we're going to cover we're going to
start out by showing how you can use URL
access as Richard described it from
cocoa then we're going to look at the
specifics of using nsurl from there
we're going to look at nsurl handle
which is the class that actually does
the download work inside of cocoa and
then finally we're going to talk about
how you can extend nsurl handle to do
your own downloads to support different
schemes and so on so the first thing is
you can in fact use URL access from
cocoa more or less as you would from a
carbon application there are two things
that you have to be very much aware of
though the first one is that you cannot
use any of the UI switches in URL access
that's because URL access brings up
Carbon panels and carbon panels and
cocoa panels don't coexist very well the
second thing you have to be aware of is
that URL access uses thread manager
threads so when Richard talked about URL
axis being highly threaded those were
all created via the thread manager api's
well the thread manager uses cooperative
threads whereas people you people
program in cocoa are more used to P
threads which are not cooperative when
you use URL access you have to be
prepared to work in the co-operative
threading world of the thread manager so
what does that mean the first thing it
means is that you must call URL access
from a thread manager thread URL access
is not prepared to be called from a
pre-emptive thread the good news is the
main thread counts the bad news is if
you call it from another cooperative
thread the main thread has to be playing
nice that means the main thread must be
prepared to yield to the other
cooperative threads the other thing that
means is if you are using the
asynchronous api's URL open you must
remember to call URL idle for the same
reasons that Richard described if you
don't call URL idle you won't be you
won't be giving time to the other
cooperative threads the easiest way to
do this from cocoa is on the main thread
post a notification to yourself with the
posting style post when idle when you
receive the notification you know that
there are no events in the queue so take
the opportunity to call URL Idol and
give up time to the other threads okay
so now we're going to do the same thing
that Richard did with the URL access
api's we're going to talk about the
synchronous ways you use nsurl and then
the asynchronous ones synchronous one is
very simple you just call them you just
send the URL the message resource data
using cache pass a flag yes or no
depending on whether you want nsurl
nsurl itself to hold that data for
future reference the asynchronous api's
are a little more complex you send the
message load resource data notifying
client and then you pass whatever object
you wish to use as the client using
cache yes or no what that does is it
starts an asynchronous download in the
background and as events come in on that
download your client is notified with
the methods listed below those methods
are provided in an informal informal
protocol so you implement only the ones
you're interested in and the others get
ignored and you can see the events there
you get note you get told when resource
data comes in when the download finishes
if the download was cancelled and if the
download fails it wrong button there we
go so what's really going on I said just
a little bit ago that nsurl is a CF URL
and a CF URL doesn't do any downloading
so here how am i doing downloads with
nsurl what's happening in the background
is that NS URL is creating a connection
to a new object an nsurl handle and it's
that handle object that's actually
managing the work of the download so one
of the side effects well one of the
reasons for this is so that nsurl handle
itself can provide a more complex API
and when you need to do more
sophisticated URL work you work directly
with the nsurl handle you can obtain a
handle by a by passing the message URL
handle using cash yes or no once you've
got the handle you can manipulate it for
more direct control you can also use it
to flush the cache
so if you find once you once you've used
the data as much times as you need to
you can then flush the cache in empty
memory and for the full details I'm
going to point you towards nsurl handle
dot H okay so here's the good the bad
and the ugly and as URL currently well
nsurl handle currently supports only
HTTP and file
unlike URL access you're not going to
find proxy or firewall support there nor
are you going to find HTTP however the
good news is we intend to do all of
those and the architecture itself is
designed to be extensible so that you
can easily add add new subclasses to
nsurl handle and thereby provide new
functionality so how do I do that well
what you do is you simply subclass nsurl
handle once yourself once you have
written the subclass you register that
subclass with NS URL and once it's
registered nsurl will automatically pick
it up and as as its messaged for its
data it will start using your subclass
so start by creating a subclass
implement all the methods inside of
nsurl handle h that are that are marked
to be overridden and then call nsurl
handle register URL handle class to
register your subclass here's a list of
the methods to override I'm not going to
go through them in great detail right
now but it gives you an idea of the
scope of the problem there may be ten
methods up there from your subclass you
should message the superclass
occasionally to inform it basically of
the state of the download and the two
methods you need to use are the ones
here background load did fail with
reasons so when you're back when your
engine detects a failure you need to
message your superclass to pass that
information on and did load bytes load
completed which you use to tell the tell
the superclass that new bytes have
arrived and whether or not the download
is now finished that's all I have for
you today about nsurl and cocoa I'm
going to ask Richard back up here on the
stage and Thomas as well tom wire is
or DTS contact excuse me worldwide
developer relations contact so if you
have questions about either URL access
or the cocoa side the NS URL and nsurl
handle he's the guy to contact
you